# Tutorial 2 - Profiling Kernels with Nvidia Night Systems

Welcome again! This tutorial aims to provide instructions on how to profile CUDA kernels using Nvidia Nsight Systems. The instructions are given based on a cloud Unix system and the VS Code platform (optional).

Basically, you can accurately measure execution time by:

1. `CUDA.@time`, a user-friendly measurement tool.

2. `BenchmarkTools.@benchmark`(often used together with `CUDA.@sync` or `CUDA.synchronize()`), a robust measurement tool.

For large applications, simple time measurement is not enough. Here, we introduce Nvidia Nsight Systems for profiling CUDA kernels. This method can provide an overview of how and when the GPU was active, thereby helping identify which kernels need optimization.

## Create Profile

Open a new bash terminal and then launch Julia with `nsys` from Night Systems:

```
$ nsys launch julia
```

Enter the package mode and activate the target Julia environment (already configured with the CUDA package):

```
pkg> activate <path-to-your-project>/Project.toml
```

Exit the package mode and write your kernels into the Julia command line. Here we use a simple example to show how to profile:

```
julia> using CUDA
julia> a = CUDA.rand(1024, 1024, 1024)
julia> sin.(a) # Run it once to force compilation
julia> CUDA.@profile sin.(a)
```

Then a file ending with `.nsys-rep` (e.g. `report1.nsys-rep`) will be created in the current directory. This file contains all the profile data.

## View Profile

Exit the Julia REPL and retrieve data from the `.nsys-rep` file.

There are many ways to customize the view of the profile data. Here, we simply mention three methods that can be directly displayed in your terminal.

1. Display default statistics from a report

```
$ nsys stats report1.nsys-rep
```

This way will export an SQLite file named `report1.sqlite` from `report1.nsys-rep` (assuming it does not already exist). Print the default reports in column format to the console.

2. Display specific data from a report

```
$ nsys stats --report cuda_gpu_trace report1.nsys-rep
```

This way will export an SQLite file named `report1.sqlite` from `report1.nsys-rep` (assuming it does not already exist). Print the report generated by the cuda_gpu_trace script to the console in column format.

3. Generate multiple reports, in multiple formats, output multiple places from a report

```
$ nsys stats --report cuda_gpu_trace --report cuda_gpu_kern_sum --report cuda_api_sum --format csv,column --output .,- report1.nsys-rep
```

Export an SQLite file named `report1.sqlite` from `report1.nsys-rep` (assuming it does not already exist). Generate three reports. The first, the cuda_gpu_trace report, will be output to the file `report1_cuda_gpu_trace.csv` in CSV format. The other two reports, cuda_gpu_kern_sum and cuda_api_sum, will be output to the console as columns of data.

## View Profile (Optional)

This section is for better visualizing the profile report using the VS Code extension. The VS Code platform is required.

From the previous section, we created `.sqlite` and `.csv` files.

For the `.sqlite` file, you can download the 'SQLite' extension. Open the Command Palette and enter `SQLite: Open Database`. Then, you can explore and query the SQLite database from the `.sqlite` file.

For the `.csv` file, you can download the 'CSV to Table' extension. Open the Command Palette and enter `Convert to table from CSV`. Then, you can view the CSV file in table format.

## References

Profiling GPU code in CUDA.jl.
https://cuda.juliagpu.org/stable/development/profiling/

NVIDIA Nsight Systems user guide.
https://docs.nvidia.com/nsight-systems/UserGuide/index.html
